[[Category:Game Jams]]
{{Past event}}

It was totally a thing. Games are done! Well, more or less.

= Entries =

In no particular order

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Pork
  |description=A herding simulator where you have to prevent some pigs from escaping
  |author=rightfold
  |language=Befunge (along with an interpreter in C++)
  |url=https://github.com/rightfold/pork
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Sheep and Cabbage
  |description=A herding simulator where you have to fix a fence before the sheep escape and eat the cabbage
  |author=Abyx
  |language=C++
  |url=https://github.com/ascheglov/LoungeGameJam2
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Fugam
  |description=Herd the shadows to let them escape
  |author=Ell
  |language=Ruby
  |url=https://github.com/elliotpotts/Fugam/releases/tag/0.1
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Herding Simulator 2014
  |description=A herding simulator
  |author=Rapptz
  |language=C++
  |url=https://github.com/Rapptz/compo-two/releases/tag/fun
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Bad Rats 2: Hyperactive Rats
  |description=A roguelike where you try to fix your broken zombie robot and escape a dungeon full of hyperactive rats.
  |author=Cat Plus Plus and R. Martinho Fernandes
  |language=C#
  |url=https://github.com/rmartinho/tglgj2/releases/tag/competing
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Fishy
  |description=Run away from the sheep!
  |author=DeadMG and melak47
  |language=C++
  |url=https://github.com/melak47/Fishy/releases/tag/1
}}

{{Game Jam entry
  |name=Prison Breakage
  |description=Evade the herding guards!
  |author=Bartek Banachewicz and Cicada
  |language=Lua with Love2D
  |url=https://github.com/bananu7/TGLGJ2/releases/tag/v0.1
}}

= Awards =

Any vagueness in the description of the award criteria is probably intended.

== Best game award ==

Awarded to the entry that is the best when viewed as a whole.

; Gold medal
: Sheep and Cabbage
; Silver medal
: Fugam
; Bronze medal
: Prison Breakage

== Best content award ==

Awarded to the entry that has the best content (visuals, story, whatever).

; Gold medal
: Prison Breakage
; Silver medal
: Fugam
; Bronze medal
: Fishy

== Best gameplay award ==

Awarded to the entry that has the best game mechanics.

; Gold medal
: Sheep and Cabbage
; Silver medal
: Prison Breakage
; Bronze medal
: Herding Simulator 2014

== Best bug award ==

Awarded to the entry with the best bug.

: '''Winner''': Prison Breakage, with the "Blue Screen of Death"
: Honorable mentions: Fugam and Bad Rats 2: Hyperactive Rats

== Worst code award ==

Awarded to the worst code snippet.

: It appears that no entry had any particularly horrible piece of code that gathered consensus
: Honorable mentions: Prison Breakage and Pork

== Minor award nominees ==

; Extreme Finger Workout Award
: Bad Rats 2: Hyperactive Rats
; No Idea What To Do Award
: Herding Simulator 2014
; Best Invisible Character
: Fishy, for "invisible sheepdog"
; Best Joke
: Bad Rats 2: Hyperactive Rats, for "stab avoidance device"
; Took Minimum Number Of Hours To Get Working A Bit And Was Actually Sorta Runnable Award
: Fishy

= Rules =

== Organisational ==

# The event takes place on 22 February 2014 between 18:00 and 23:00 UTC.
# Participants may be individuals or teams of two.
# A few minutes before the start of the event, three themes are picked randomly: Escape, Herding, and Repair what's broken. Each participant has to incorporate two of those themes in their entry.
# Each participant must have their entry published on a publicly available source code repository when the event ends.
# Each entry must be accompanied by a ''description'' of its contents, including any build/run/play instructions that might be required.

== Technical ==

# All programming languages are allowed.
# External libraries are allowed with the following conditions:
## The libraries used must be available under an open source license.
## The libraries used must be disclosed in the entry's description.

